Manual Numark Mixtrack Platinum FX (#623)
mixxxdj/manual: source/hardware/controllers/numark_mixtrack_platinum_fx.rst

   "", ":hwlabel:`SHIFT` Keylock", "Hold Shift and this button to adjust Keylock."
   "19", "Beats Multiplier", "Increases and decreases the rate of the effects to the beat. When using a time-based effect, this knob adjusts its time division."
   "", ":hwlabel:`SHIFT` FX Macros", "Selects and controls FX Macros parameters."
   "20", "FX Wet/Dry Knob", "Turn this knob to adjust the wet/dry mix of the effects."
   "21", "Software FX", "Press one of these buttons to select a software effect.

   • HPF (High pass filter)
   • LPF (Low pass filter)
   • Flanger
   • Echo
   • Reverb
   • Phaser"
   "21", ":hwlabel:`SHIFT` Multiple FX (at once)", "Hold shift and select/unselect multiple FX buttons to be active at once."
   "22", "FX Toggle On / Off:", "Push up on the toggle switch to latch (lock) the FX in the on position. Push down on the toggle switch to turn the FX on momentarily. When the toggle switch is in the middle position, the FX will be off."
   "23", "Tap BPM", "Press this a minimum of 4 times to manually enter a new BPM. The software will ignore the track's BPM and follow your manually entered tempo.

>    *See Tapping Logic*"

Reviewer: hint: IIRC you can link to headers in this document:
* add a ref to the header
* link to it with
   ```
   :ref:`LinkTitle<ref-target>`
   ```

For example see `reloop-terminal-mix-series-options` in https://github.com/mixxxdj/manual/blob/2b3021375e075b3a1df77a4a8aa17705a2fefd77/source/hardware/controllers/reloop_terminal_mix_series.rst?plain=1

Author: Done on all the lines with see modes.

   "", "Deck Display", "**1. Active Deck:** Indicates the currently active deck.

   **2. Platter Position:** Displays the current track position.

   **3. BPM:** Displays the current BPM for the selected track.

   **4. Keylock:** This icon illuminates when keylock is active for the current deck.

   **5. Pitch Range:** Shows the current pitch range.

   **6. Pitch:** Shows current pitch of the track.

   **7. Pitch Adjust:** Indicates the direction to move Pitch Fader to match the current track's BPM with the track on the opposite deck.

   **8. Time Remaining:** Displays the time elapsed or time remaining for the current track. (Time elapsed only implemented in current mapping).

   **9. Time Bars:** Provides visual reference to time remaining on the selected song. When the song is almost over these segments will flash to give a warning."
   "25", "Scratch", "Press this button to turn on the scratch feature for the jog wheel."
   "", ":hwlabel:`SHIFT` Deck Select", "Switch between decks 1 & 3 or 2 & 4 for 4 deck mixing"
   "26", "Shift", "Allows multiple control commands to be triggered when pressed first along with other buttons."

>    "27", "Sync", "**Tap** this button to automatically match the corresponding Deck's tempo with the opposite Deck's tempo."
>    "", ":hwlabel:`HOLD` Lock Sync", "Hold for at least one second to lock sync. Tap again to release sync lock."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   "27", "Sync (tap)", "Automatically match the corresponding Deck's tempo with the opposite Deck's tempo."
   "", "Lock Sync (hold)", "Hold for at least one second to lock sync. Tap again to release sync lock."
```

   "", ":hwlabel:`SHIFT` Quantize", "Toggle quantize on/off."

>    "28", "Cue", "Sets and recalls the main Cue point in the current track"
>    "", ":hwlabel:`HOLD` Cue Play", "Hold down the Cue button for temporary play of the cue point. The track will play for as long as the button is held down and return to the cue point once it is released"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   "28", "Cue (tap)", "Sets and recalls the main Cue point in the current track"
   "", "Cue Play (hold)", "Play from the Cue point for as long as the button is held down and return to the cue point once it is released"
```

Reviewer: actually this is standard cue behaviour (CueButton component uses [`cue-default`](https://manual.mixxx.org/2.4/en/chapters/appendix/mixxx_controls.html#control-[ChannelN]-cue_default))

   "", ":hwlabel:`SHIFT` Beat Grid Adjust", "Adjust Beat Grid, Hold shift and this button to align closest beat to the current play position."
   "30", "Cue (Pad)", "With this Pad mode, each pad assigns a Hot Cue Point, or returns the track to that Hot Cue Point. When a pad is unlit, you can assign a Hot Cue Point by pressing it at the desired point in your track.

   See :ref:`Performance Pad Modes <numark-platinum-fx-performance-pad-modes>`"
   "", ":hwlabel:`SHIFT` Secondary Hot Cue", "Hot Cue 9-16"
   "", ":hwlabel:`HOLD` or :hwlabel:`2X PRESS`

   Beat Jump", "Beat Jump"
   "31", "Auto Loop (Pad)", "With this Pad mode, each pad triggers an auto loop of a different length.

   See :ref:`Performance Pad Modes <numark-platinum-fx-performance-pad-modes>`"
   "", ":hwlabel:`SHIFT` Beat Jump", "Roll Loop"
   "", ":hwlabel:`HOLD` or :hwlabel:`2X PRESS`

   Beat Jump", "Cue Loop"
   "32", "Fader Cuts (Pad)", "With this Pad mode, the top 4 performance pads are used to perform transform effects for cuts on scratching.

   See :ref:`Performance Pad Modes <numark-platinum-fx-performance-pad-modes>`"
   "", ":hwlabel:`SHIFT` Roll", "Each pad triggers a roll of a different length"

>    "", ":hwlabel:`HOLD` or :hwlabel:`2X PRESS`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   "", "Hold or double-press
```

   Fader Cuts 3rd set", "Fader Cuts Roll Rev, Key Tempo"
   "33", "Sampler 1-8 (Pad)", "With this Pad mode, each pad triggers a sample in the software.

   See :ref:`Performance Pad Modes <numark-platinum-fx-performance-pad-modes>`"
   "", ":hwlabel:`SHIFT` Sampler 9-16", "Selects layer 2 of samples - Performance pads then trigger samples 9-16."

>    "", ":hwlabel:`HOLD` or :hwlabel:`2X PRESS`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   "", "Hold or double-press
```

Reviewer: etc. if you agree with this proposal

Firmware
--------

The mapping requires the following Soft/Firmware for all enabled features to work for Mixxx 2.4

-  `Firmware Update v1.10 MAC <https://cdn.inmusicbrands.com/Numark/MixtrackPlatinumFX/Mixtrack%20Platinum%20FX%20Firmware%201.10%20Mac.zip>`__
-  `Firmware Update v1.10 WIN <https://cdn.inmusicbrands.com/Numark/MixtrackPlatinumFX/Mixtrack%20Platinum%20FX%20Firmware%201.10%20Win.zip>`__
- Linux user need to install firmware using Windows or MAC.

Overview
--------

.. figure:: ../../_static/controllers/numark_mixtrack_platinum_fx_toprow.svg
   :align: center
   :width: 100%
   :figwidth: 100%
   :alt: Numark Mixtrack Playinum FX (schematic view)
   :figclass: pretty-figures

   Mapping Manual for NUMARK MIXTRACK PLATINUM FX

Index
-----

   | 1.Overview
   | 2.Audio Interface
   | 3.Firmware
   | 4.Control Mapping
   | 5.Performance Pad Modes
   | a.Pad Loop Timings
   | b.Cue Mode & Layers
   | c.Auto Loop Mode & Layers
   | d.Fade Cuts Mode & Layers
   | e.Sample Mode & Layers
   | 6.Advanced User Section

>    | 7.Notes

Author: Deleted

     device and works with Linux, macOS, and Windows.

-------------------------------------

   | **Audio Interface**
   | Configure Mixxx's Master output for channels 1-2 and Headphones
     output for Channels 3-4.
   | 
   | The microphone input on this controller is not available to the
     computer through the controller’s audio interface. It is mixed with
     the master output in hardware, so this controller’s audio interface
     is not suitable for broadcasting or recording the inputs. If you want
     to use the controller for broadcasting or recording, a separatewith a
     microphone input is suggested.

Control Mapping
---------------

.. figure:: ../../_static/controllers/numark_mixtrack_platinum_fx.svg
   :align: center
   :width: 100%
   :figwidth: 100%
   :alt: Numark Mixtrack Playinum FX (schematic view)
   :figclass: pretty-figures

**Numark Mixtrack Platinum FX (Controls Condensed)** 

+-----------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+
|                       |    Default Function   |    Shift Function     |
+=======================+=======================+=======================+

> |  1.                   |    | Browse Knob:     |    | Speed Scrolling  |

Author: Updated appearance

|                       |    | Rotate this knob |    | SHIFT + Rotate   |
|                       |      to cycle through |    | Directory        |
|                       |      folders and      |      Open/Close SHIFT |
|                       |    | tracks. Press    |      (left deck)      |
|                       |      the knob to      |    | Preview Play     |
|                       |      cycle between    |      Track            |
|                       |      the Crates and   |    | SHIFT (right     |

> |                       |      Library. Hold    |      deck)            |

Author: Updated

|                       |    audio level going  |                       |
|                       |    to the Master      |                       |
|                       |    Output.            |                       |
+-----------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+
|  7.                   |    | Load:            |    | Eject Deck       |
|                       |    | Press one of     |    | Removes the      |
|                       |      these buttons    |      track from       |
|                       |      while a track is |      related deck.    |
|                       |      selected to      |                       |
|                       |      assign it to     |                       |
|                       |      Deck 1 or 2,     |                       |
|                       |      respectively.    |                       |
|                       |      Quickly double   |                       |
|                       |      press a Load     |                       |
|                       |      button to assign |                       |
|                       |      the same track   |                       |

> |                       |      on both decks.   |                       |

Author: Updated

|                       |    pre-fader, pre-EQ  |                       |
|                       |    audio level of the |                       |
|                       |    corresponding      |                       |
|                       |    channel.           |                       |
+-----------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+
|  9.                   |    High EQ: Controls  |                       |
|                       |    the treble         |                       |
|                       |    frequencies for    |                       |
|                       |    the individual     |                       |
|                       |    channels           |                       |
+-----------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+
|  10.                  |    | Mid EQ:          |                       |
|                       |    | Controls the     |                       |
|                       |      mid-range        |                       |
|                       |      frequencies for  |                       |
|                       |      the individual   |                       |

> |                       |      channels.        |                       |

Author: Updated appearance

|                       |      variable         |      Range 3 ranges.  |
|                       |      pitches.         |                       |
|                       |                       |    | Change cue       |
|                       |    | *Note*           |    | Hold and         |
|                       |    | • Only One Cue   |      selecting other  |
|                       |      at a time •      |      cue point on Cue |
|                       |      Deleting cue     |      Pad changes cue. |
|                       |      point in Pitch   |                       |
|                       |      Play Mode not    |                       |
|                       |      possible,        |                       |
+-----------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+

..

**Advanced User Section**
----------------------

For advanced users, alternative functions exist in the code, by
accessing and setting a code variable.

**TAPPING**
Added logic for the tap button, Two modes exist:

The default is to use the MIXXX common bpm.tapButton
which sets the effective bpm to the one tapped using the 
tempo adjust. Shift tap resets to 0 tempo change. 

> The alternative changes the actual file bpm. The problem 

Reviewer: This is not a problem, it's the effect of changing the file BPM.

Simply add a hint where users can change the BPM manually, the Track Properties dialog and the BPM column (if inline editing is enabled in Preferences -> Library).

Author: Deleted

is the reset does not change the file back to the original bpm, the best 
I can do is change the effective bpm to the original, but then the file is 
still on the changed bpm next time it is loaded. The alternative mode is only 
accessible by setting a code variable MixtrackPlatinumFX.tapChangesTempo to 
false, recommended only for advanced users.
 

> ..

Reviewer: ??

Author: Deleted

For the default, the MIXXX common function takes taps and averages
them. If you don't tap for 2 seconds the average resets and you start
again. To prevent accidental double taps or misses if a tap is 40%
shorter or 80% longer it will be ignored. I found while testing
sometimes if I got the first two taps wrong the rest would be
rejected by the filter, but it wasn't obvious this was happening. By
default the button is dimly lit (like most others). When you tap the
button if it accepts the tap it will go bright, if it rejects it from
the filter it will show off. If this happens stop tapping wait 2
seconds for the filter to clear and try again. Fixed this kicking in

> after 8 taps.

Reviewer: Does this apply to your custom BPM tap function only?
If no, I don't think this information belongs here. Rather add that hint to https://manual.mixxx.org/2.4/en/chapters/appendix/mixxx_controls.html#control-[ChannelN]-bpm_tap (in a separate PR) and link to it with
```
:mixxx:coref:`bpm_tap<[ChannelN],bpm_tap>`
```

Author: Deleted

.. Credit to PopHippy for creating the original PDF file.

Numark Mixtrack Platinum FX

> 

Reviewer: This blank line before the dash line indicating a header makes the page generator pick **Overview** as page title.
Please remove.
![image](https://github.com/mixxxdj/manual/assets/5934199/088cef39-c869-4d5c-b767-e5b4223066ca)

Author: Updated header.

==============================

-  `Manufacturer’s product page <https://www.numark.com/product/mixtrack-platinum-fx>`__
-  `Forum thread <https://mixxx.discourse.group/t/numark-mixtrack-platinum-fx-mapping/19985/215>`__

Mixtrack Platinum FX is a 24-bit 4-deck digital DJ controller with a dedicated software effects section, large 6-inch capacitive-touch jog wheels with built in hi-res displays and 16-multifunctional performance pads.

>    Firmware
> 
>    The mapping requires the following Soft/Firmware for all enabled
>    features to work for Mixxx 2.4
> 
> -  `Firmware Update v1.10 MAC <https://cdn.inmusicbrands.com/Numark/MixtrackPlatinumFX/Mixtrack%20Platinum%20FX%20Firmware%201.10%20Mac.zip>`__
> -  `Firmware Update v1.10 WIN <https://cdn.inmusicbrands.com/Numark/MixtrackPlatinumFX/Mixtrack%20Platinum%20FX%20Firmware%201.10%20Win.zip>`__
> - Linux user need to install firmware using Windows or MAC.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Firmware
--------

The mapping requires the following Soft/Firmware for all enabled features to work for Mixxx 2.4

-  `Firmware Update v1.10 MAC <https://cdn.inmusicbrands.com/Numark/MixtrackPlatinumFX/Mixtrack%20Platinum%20FX%20Firmware%201.10%20Mac.zip>`__
-  `Firmware Update v1.10 WIN <https://cdn.inmusicbrands.com/Numark/MixtrackPlatinumFX/Mixtrack%20Platinum%20FX%20Firmware%201.10%20Win.zip>`__
- Linux user need to install firmware using Windows or MAC.
```

Overview
--------

.. figure:: ../../_static/controllers/numark_mixtrack_platinum_fx_toprow.svg
   :align: center
   :width: 100%
   :figwidth: 100%
   :alt: Numark Mixtrack Playinum FX (schematic view)
   :figclass: pretty-figures

> ---------------

Reviewer: ```suggestion
---------------
```
Please remove these lines. They prevent proper header rendering. Also some table rows are broken due to blank lines.
I suggest you check the preview and tweak until it looks as desired.
https://deploy-preview-623--mixxx-manual.netlify.app/hardware/controllers/numark_mixtrack_platinum_fx

Author: I removed the lines.

Reviewer: The appearance is still broken, just check the preview.
FYI you may also build the html locally with `make html` and double-check before pushing.

Author: I just updated the appearance. Can you recheck and make suggestion on which areas need to be improve?

Reviewer: Yes, it's loking good now. It were just the blank lines that enforced header formatting on each following line.

   "3", "Mic Gain", "Adjusts the level for the microphone input."
   "4", "Cue Mix", "Adjusts the audio output to the headphones, mixing between the cue output and the master mix output."
   "5", "Cue Gain", "Adjusts the volume for headphone cueing."

>    "",  ":hwlabel:`SHIFT` Global Sample Volume Adjust", "Turning Cue Gain with Shift held globally adjusts volume on all samples"

Reviewer: Let's avoid redundancies : )
```suggestion
   "",  ":hwlabel:`SHIFT` Global Sample Volume Adjust", "Adjusts volume on all sample decks"
```

19       Beats Multiplier                                Increases and decreases the rate of the effects to the beat. When using a time-based effect, this knob adjusts its time division.
|        :hwlabel:`SHIFT` FX Macros                      Selects and controls FX Macros parameters.
20       FX Wet/Dry Knob                                 Turn this knob to adjust the wet/dry mix of the effects.
21       Software FX                                     | Fx selectors turn on and off the user assigned effects.
                                                         | Press one of these buttons to select a software effect.
                                                         | • HPF (High pass filter)
                                                         | • LPF (Low pass filter)
                                                         | • Flanger
                                                         | • Echo
                                                         | • Reverb
                                                         | • Phaser

>                                                          | FX Buttons will need tp be assigned suing the mixxx `Effects <https://manual.mixxx.org/2.5/en/chapters/effects#effects>`__ option on the main interface.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                                                         | FX Buttons will need to be assigned with the mixxx `Effects <https://manual.mixxx.org/2.5/en/chapters/effects#effects>`__ selectors in the graphical interface.
```

Author: Updated/

   Transport", "Sample 1-8"
   ":hwlabel:`SHIFT`

   Secondary Mode

   • (LED On)", "Hot Cue 9-16", "Roll Loop", "Fader Cuts 8", "Sample 9-16"

>    ":hwlabel:`Hold` or :hwlabel:`2X PRESS`

Reviewer: Somehow I find the hwlabels confusing for this. I'll propose another version..

Author: I updated all the suggestions.

Logic for the tap button:

> 1. If only one deck is loaded, the BPM control will be assigned to theloaded deck.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. If only one deck is loaded, the BPM control will be assigned to the loaded deck.
```
